[MUSIC]
So far we've demonstrated MCMC for
just one single parameter.
What happens if we seek the posterior
distribution of multiple parameters and
that posterior distribution
doesn't have a standard form.
One option is to perform Metropolis
Hastings by sampling candidates for
all the parameters at once.
And accepting or rejecting all
of those candidates together.
While this is possible,
it can get complicated.
Another simpler option is,
to sample the parameters one at a time.
As a simple example, suppose we have
a joint postilion distribution for
two parameters, theta and
phi, given our data Y.
And let's suppose we only know
this up to proportionality.
We are missing the normalizing constant.
What we've calculated is
the function g of theta and phi.
If we knew the value of phi,
then we could just draw a candidate for
theta and use this g function to compute
our Metropolis Hastings ratio and
possibly accept the candidate.
Before moving on to the next iteration,
if we don't know the value of phi, then
we could perform a similar update for it.
We would draw a candidate for
phi using some proposal distribution.
And again, use this g function where
we plug in the value of theta.
To compute our Metropolis-Hastings ratio.
We pretend we know the value of theta
by substituting in its current value or
current iteration from the Markov chain.
Once we've drawn for both theta and
phi, that completes one iteration and
we begin the next iteration
by drawing a new theta.
In other words we are just going back and
forth,updating the parameters one at
a time,plugging in the current value of
the other parameter into the g function.
This idea of one at a time updates is
used in what we call Gibbs sampling.
It also produces
a stationary Markov chain,
whose stationary distribution is
the target or posterior distribution.
If you recall, this is the namesake of
JAGS, which is Just Another Gibbs Sampler.
Before describing the full
Gibbs sampling algorithm
there's one more thing we can do.
Again using the chain rule of probability.
We know that the joint posterior
distribution of theta and
phi can be factored.
First into the marginal.
Posterior distribution of phi
times the full conditional
distribution of theta given phi and
the data.
Notice that the only difference
between this full joint posterior
distribution and
this full conditional distribution here,
is multiplication by a factor that
does not involve theta at all.
Since this g function when viewed as
a function of theta is proportional
to both the full posterior and
this full conditional for theta.
We might as well have replaced g with
this distribution when we performed
the update for theta.
This distribution of theta
given everything else is called
the full conditional distribution for
theta.
Why would we use it instead of g?
In some cases the full
conditional distribution
is a standard distribution
that we know how to sample.
If that happens,
we no longer need to draw a candidate and
decide whether to accept it.
In fact, if we treat the full
conditional distribution
as a candidate proposal distribution,
the resulting Metropolis-Hastings
acceptance probability
becomes exactly one.
Gibbs Samplers require a little bit more
work up front because you need to find
the full conditional distribution for
each parameter.
The good news is,
that all full conditional distributions
have the same starting point.
The full posterior distribution.
So, using the example above,
we have that the full conditional
distribution for theta,
given phi, and y,
will be proportional to full joint
posterior distribution of theta and
phi, given y.
Which is also proportional
to this g function up above.
Here we would simply treat phi as a known
constant number likewise the other full
conditional will be phi given theta and y.
Which again will be proportional
to the full joint posterior
distribution, or this g function here.
We always start with the full
posterior distribution,
thus the process of finding
full conditional distributions,
is the same as finding the posterior
distribution of each parameter.
And pretending that all of the other
parameters are known constants.
The idea of Gibbs sampling is that we can
update multiple parameters by sampling
just one parameter at a time and cycling
through all parameters and then repeating.
To perform the update for
one particular parameter we substitute in
the current values of all
the other parameters.
So let's call this our Gibbs
sampling algorithm.
Here's the algorithm.
Let's suppose we have the joint
posterior distribution for
two parameters, phi and
theta, like we do here.
If we can find the distribution for
each of the parameters given
all the other parameters and data,
the full conditional distributions,
then we'll take turns
sampling the distributions.
The first step in
the Gibbs sampler will be
just like the first step in
Metropolis Hastings where we initialize.
So we'll start with a draw for
Theta not and phi not.
The next step is to iterate so for
I in 1 up to M we are going
to repeat the following.
The first thing we'll do Is using
the previous iterations draw for Phi.
So Phi, i -1, we're going to draw,
Theta i from it's full conditional.
By plugging in the old value of phi.
Then, once we've completed this draw for
phi.
I'm sorry, this draw for theta i.
We're going to use it.
So using Theta i,
the most recent draw for theta,
we're going to complete a draw for phi i
using its full conditional distribution.
And we're going to condition on theta i.
Together, these two steps complete
one cycle of the Gibbs sampler and
they produce a pair.
We'll get a theta i, phi i pair.
That completes one iteration
of the MCMC sampler.
If there are more than two
parameters we can handle that also.
One Gibbs cycle would include
an update for each of the parameters.
In the following segments we're going
to provide a concrete example of
finding full conditional distributions and
constructing a Gibbs sampler
[MUSIC]